# ECIR_Thesis_SCheung
Research in Mapping the Global Governance Architecture of Core Internet Resources

There are two objectives this thesis aims to accomplish. The first goal is to provide a methodology in surveying and understanding the global governing structures of the Internet System and cyberspace. The second objective of this paper is to provide an overview of the current state assessment of the governance architecture, and infer from its design what the principles of these policies yield and as well as their intention.

This paper asserts a methodology of appreciating the whole of the complex system, rather than a skewed focus of the sum of its parts. In viewing the whole scope, can theories of international relation evolve and be better adaptive to the shifting changes in today’s brave new world. Through this methodology, the findings of this paper suggests the current existing governance architecture yields design principles conducive to emergent characteristics conducive to creating a space and practice for innovation development, as well as room for self-adaptation.

In order to create a comprehensive assessment of the global cyber ecosystem, the methodology took to the mapping of the intersection between cyberspace and international relations, and performing a break-down analysis of the technical inter-networking function of the Internet System. The assessment will leverage spatial visualization as tools of analysis. It will also draw upon idioms, concepts, and definitions from the fields of the natural sciences, economics, urban-design disciplines to effectively represents the cyber ecological paradigm.

For the purposes of analysis the identified core inter-networking infrastructures are limited to and defined as: the Internet Protocol (“IP”) Standards, the Internet Protocol (IP) Addresses and Autonomous System Number Addresses (“Number Resources”), and the Domain Name System Root-Server Infrastructure (“DNS-RSI”). Furthermore, this paper will set the baseline criteria of “innovation development” profiled and defined in the existing literature, Collective Genius.

The breadth of this paper is limited to global-regional institutions and activities from 1998 to 2014. The observed constituents and activities are limited to the direct involvement of the design and development, delegation, and management and operation of said technical components. In addition, the analysis will also capture Policy Development Processes (PDP) which institutions undergo when creating/amending the governing mechanisms over the internet’s core resources.
